#### [Logging](index.md 'index')

## Logging Assembly
### Namespaces

<a name='BeeneticToolkit.Logging'></a>

## BeeneticToolkit.Logging Namespace

The [BeeneticToolkit.Logging](index.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging') namespace provides a structured logging system with various loggers  
and utilities to manage and format log messages across different output sources.
- **[LoggerBase](LoggerBase.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase')** `Class` Provides a base implementation for loggers with common functionalities.
  - **[LoggerBase(string, LogThreshold)](LoggerBase.LoggerBase(string,LogThreshold).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.LoggerBase(string, BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold)')** `Constructor` Initializes a new instance of the [LoggerBase](LoggerBase.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase') class.
  - **[Enabled](LoggerBase.Enabled.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.Enabled')** `Property` Gets or sets a value indicating whether the logger is enabled.
  - **[Id](LoggerBase.Id.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.Id')** `Property` Gets the unique identifier for the logger.
  - **[Includes](LoggerBase.Includes.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.Includes')** `Property` Struct that contains flags for the individual components of [BaseMessage(LogSeverity, object, MethodBase)](LoggerBase.BaseMessage(LogSeverity,object,MethodBase).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.BaseMessage(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, object, System.Reflection.MethodBase)')
  - **[Name](LoggerBase.Name.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.Name')** `Property` Gets or sets the name of the logger.
  - **[Threshold](LoggerBase.Threshold.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.Threshold')** `Property` Gets or sets the logging threshold level.
  - **[TimestampFormat](LoggerBase.TimestampFormat.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.TimestampFormat')** `Property` Gets or sets the timestamp format, which is used in [BaseMessage(LogSeverity, object, MethodBase)](LoggerBase.BaseMessage(LogSeverity,object,MethodBase).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.BaseMessage(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, object, System.Reflection.MethodBase)').
  - **[AllowLogMessage(LogSeverity)](LoggerBase.AllowLogMessage(LogSeverity).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.AllowLogMessage(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity)')** `Method` Evaluates if a log message meets the required severity threshold and checks if the logger is currently enabled.
  - **[BaseMessage(LogSeverity, object, string)](LoggerBase.BaseMessage(LogSeverity,object,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.BaseMessage(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, object, string)')** `Method` Generates a base message string including the current time, log level, and optionally the object and method-name context.
  - **[BaseMessage(LogSeverity, object, MethodBase)](LoggerBase.BaseMessage(LogSeverity,object,MethodBase).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.BaseMessage(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, object, System.Reflection.MethodBase)')** `Method` Generates a base message string including the current time, log level, and optionally the object and method context.
  - **[Log(LogSeverity, object, string, string, string, string)](LoggerBase.Log(LogSeverity,object,string,string,string,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.Log(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, object, string, string, string, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with additional context from an object and a method name, using the specified severity.
  - **[Log(LogSeverity, object, MethodBase, string, string, string)](LoggerBase.Log(LogSeverity,object,MethodBase,string,string,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.Log(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, object, System.Reflection.MethodBase, string, string, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with additional context and the specified severity.
  - **[Log(LogSeverity, string, string, string)](LoggerBase.Log(LogSeverity,string,string,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase.Log(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, string, string, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with the specified severity.
- **[LogManager](LogManager.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LogManager')** `Class` Manages logging operations by maintaining a collection of loggers and delegating log messages to them.
  - **[AddLogger(LoggerBase)](LogManager.AddLogger(LoggerBase).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LogManager.AddLogger(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LoggerBase)')** `Method` Adds a logger to the LogManager and enables fluent configuration.
  - **[DisableLogger(string)](LogManager.DisableLogger(string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LogManager.DisableLogger(string)')** `Method` Disables a logger with the specified identifier.
  - **[EnableLogger(string)](LogManager.EnableLogger(string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LogManager.EnableLogger(string)')** `Method` Enables a logger with the specified identifier.
  - **[GetLogger(string)](LogManager.GetLogger(string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LogManager.GetLogger(string)')** `Method` Gets a specified logger.
  - **[LogMessage(LogSeverity, object, string, string)](LogManager.LogMessage(LogSeverity,object,string,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LogManager.LogMessage(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, object, string, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with additional context from an object and a method name, using the specified severity.
  - **[LogMessage(LogSeverity, object, MethodBase, string)](LogManager.LogMessage(LogSeverity,object,MethodBase,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LogManager.LogMessage(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, object, System.Reflection.MethodBase, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with additional context from an object and a method, using the specified severity.
  - **[LogMessage(LogSeverity, string)](LogManager.LogMessage(LogSeverity,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.LogManager.LogMessage(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with the specified severity.
- **[BaseMessageIncludes](BaseMessageIncludes.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.BaseMessageIncludes')** `Struct` Represents a configuration of flags that specify which components are included in a log entry.
  - **[BaseMessageIncludes(bool, bool, bool, bool, bool)](BaseMessageIncludes.BaseMessageIncludes(bool,bool,bool,bool,bool).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.BaseMessageIncludes.BaseMessageIncludes(bool, bool, bool, bool, bool)')** `Constructor` Initializes a new instance of the [BaseMessageIncludes](BaseMessageIncludes.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.BaseMessageIncludes') struct with the specified component inclusion settings.
  - **[LogSeverity](BaseMessageIncludes.LogSeverity.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.BaseMessageIncludes.LogSeverity')** `Property` Gets a value indicating whether the log severity is included in the log entry.
  - **[MethodName](BaseMessageIncludes.MethodName.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.BaseMessageIncludes.MethodName')** `Property` Gets a value indicating whether the method name is included in the log entry.
  - **[ObjectName](BaseMessageIncludes.ObjectName.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.BaseMessageIncludes.ObjectName')** `Property` Gets a value indicating whether the object name is included in the log entry.
  - **[Timestamp](BaseMessageIncludes.Timestamp.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.BaseMessageIncludes.Timestamp')** `Property` Gets a value indicating whether the timestamp is included in the log entry.
  - **[TypeName](BaseMessageIncludes.TypeName.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.BaseMessageIncludes.TypeName')** `Property` Gets a value indicating whether the type name is included in the log entry.
- **[IBeeneticLogger](IBeeneticLogger.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.IBeeneticLogger')** `Interface` Defines a general interface for loggers, allowing messages to be logged with varying levels of severity.
  - **[Log(LogSeverity, object, MethodBase, string, string, string)](IBeeneticLogger.Log(LogSeverity,object,MethodBase,string,string,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.IBeeneticLogger.Log(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, object, System.Reflection.MethodBase, string, string, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with additional context from an object and a method, and with the specified severity.
  - **[Log(LogSeverity, string, string, string)](IBeeneticLogger.Log(LogSeverity,string,string,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.IBeeneticLogger.Log(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, string, string, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with the specified severity.

<a name='BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums'></a>

## BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums Namespace
- **[LogSeverity](LogSeverity.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity')** `Enum` Defines the severity levels for logging messages.
  - **[Debug](LogSeverity.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity.Debug 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity.Debug')** `Field` Debug severity level, used for debugging purposes during development.
  - **[Error](LogSeverity.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity.Error 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity.Error')** `Field` Error severity level, used for error events that might still allow the application to continue running.
  - **[Fatal](LogSeverity.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity.Fatal 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity.Fatal')** `Field` Fatal severity level, used for very severe error events that will presumably lead the application to abort.
  - **[Info](LogSeverity.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity.Info 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity.Info')** `Field` Informational severity level, used for general informational messages.
  - **[Trace](LogSeverity.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity.Trace 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity.Trace')** `Field` Trace severity level, used for detailed and systematic logging.
  - **[Warn](LogSeverity.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity.Warn 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity.Warn')** `Field` Warning severity level, used for potentially harmful situations.
- **[LogThreshold](LogThreshold.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold')** `Enum` Defines the threshold levels for logging, determining which messages should be logged based on their severity.
  - **[All](LogThreshold.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.All 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.All')** `Field` All logging levels are enabled. Every log message regardless of severity will be logged.
  - **[Debug](LogThreshold.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.Debug 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.Debug')** `Field` Debug and higher severity levels are enabled. This includes Debug, Warn, Error, and Fatal.
  - **[Error](LogThreshold.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.Error 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.Error')** `Field` Error and Fatal severity levels are enabled.
  - **[Fatal](LogThreshold.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.Fatal 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.Fatal')** `Field` Only Fatal severity level is enabled.
  - **[Info](LogThreshold.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.Info 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.Info')** `Field` Informational and higher severity levels are enabled. This includes Info, Debug, Warn, Error, and Fatal.
  - **[Off](LogThreshold.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.Off 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.Off')** `Field` Logging is disabled. No log messages will be recorded.
  - **[Warn](LogThreshold.md#BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.Warn 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold.Warn')** `Field` Warning and higher severity levels are enabled. This includes Warn, Error, and Fatal.

<a name='BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers'></a>

## BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers Namespace
- **[ConsoleLogger](ConsoleLogger.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.ConsoleLogger')** `Class` A logger that writes log messages to the console.
  - **[ConsoleLogger(string, LogThreshold)](ConsoleLogger.ConsoleLogger(string,LogThreshold).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.ConsoleLogger.ConsoleLogger(string, BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold)')** `Constructor` Initializes a new instance of the [ConsoleLogger](ConsoleLogger.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.ConsoleLogger') class.
  - **[Log(LogSeverity, object, MethodBase, string, string, string)](ConsoleLogger.Log(LogSeverity,object,MethodBase,string,string,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.ConsoleLogger.Log(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, object, System.Reflection.MethodBase, string, string, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with additional context from an object and a method, and with the specified severity to the console.
  - **[Log(LogSeverity, string, string, string)](ConsoleLogger.Log(LogSeverity,string,string,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.ConsoleLogger.Log(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, string, string, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with the specified severity to the console.
- **[DebugLogger](DebugLogger.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.DebugLogger')** `Class` A logger that writes log messages to the debug output.
  - **[DebugLogger(string, LogThreshold)](DebugLogger.DebugLogger(string,LogThreshold).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.DebugLogger.DebugLogger(string, BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold)')** `Constructor` Initializes a new instance of the [DebugLogger](DebugLogger.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.DebugLogger') class.
  - **[Log(LogSeverity, object, MethodBase, string, string, string)](DebugLogger.Log(LogSeverity,object,MethodBase,string,string,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.DebugLogger.Log(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, object, System.Reflection.MethodBase, string, string, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with additional context from an object and a method, and with the specified severity to the debug output.
  - **[Log(LogSeverity, string, string, string)](DebugLogger.Log(LogSeverity,string,string,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.DebugLogger.Log(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, string, string, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with the specified severity to the debug output.
- **[FileLogger](FileLogger.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.FileLogger')** `Class` A logger that writes log messages to a file. Writes to the same file are serialized,  
  so multiple [FileLogger](FileLogger.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.FileLogger') instances (and threads) can safely target one path.
  - **[FileLogger(string, string, LogThreshold)](FileLogger.FileLogger(string,string,LogThreshold).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.FileLogger.FileLogger(string, string, BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogThreshold)')** `Constructor` Initializes a new instance of the [FileLogger](FileLogger.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.FileLogger') class.
  - **[Log(LogSeverity, object, MethodBase, string, string, string)](FileLogger.Log(LogSeverity,object,MethodBase,string,string,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.FileLogger.Log(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, object, System.Reflection.MethodBase, string, string, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with additional context from an object and a method, and with the specified severity to the file.
  - **[Log(LogSeverity, string, string, string)](FileLogger.Log(LogSeverity,string,string,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Loggers.FileLogger.Log(BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Enums.LogSeverity, string, string, string)')** `Method` Logs a message with the specified severity to the file.

<a name='BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities'></a>

## BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities Namespace
- **[LogIgnoreAttribute](LogIgnoreAttribute.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities.LogIgnoreAttribute')** `Class` Specifies that a property should be ignored when generating a string representation  
  of an object's public properties using [ToPropertiesString(this object, int, char, string)](ObjectPropertyExtensions.ToPropertiesString(thisobject,int,char,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities.ObjectPropertyExtensions.ToPropertiesString(this object, int, char, string)').
- **[LogUtils](LogUtils.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities.LogUtils')** `Class` Provides utility methods for logging and displaying elements of collections and properties of objects.
  - **[PrintElements&lt;T&gt;(IEnumerable&lt;T&gt;, bool, string)](LogUtils.PrintElements_T_(IEnumerable_T_,bool,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities.LogUtils.PrintElements<T>(System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable<T>, bool, string)')** `Method` Converts an IEnumerable sequence into a string representation, with options for inline display and custom delimiters.
  - **[PrintElements&lt;T&gt;(List&lt;T&gt;, bool, string)](LogUtils.PrintElements_T_(List_T_,bool,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities.LogUtils.PrintElements<T>(System.Collections.Generic.List<T>, bool, string)')** `Method` Converts a list of elements into a string representation, with options for inline display and custom delimiters.
  - **[PropertyZeroSet&lt;T&gt;(T)](LogUtils.PropertyZeroSet_T_(T).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities.LogUtils.PropertyZeroSet<T>(T)')** `Method` Sets all numeric properties of an object to zero.
  - **[ToPropertiesString(object)](LogUtils.ToPropertiesString(object).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities.LogUtils.ToPropertiesString(object)')** `Method` Creates a string representation of the public properties of an object, excluding any marked as obsolete.
- **[ObjectPropertyExtensions](ObjectPropertyExtensions.md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities.ObjectPropertyExtensions')** `Class` Provides extension methods for objects.
  - **[CountNonZeroNumericProperties(this object, Func&lt;PropertyInfo,bool&gt;)](ObjectPropertyExtensions.CountNonZeroNumericProperties(thisobject,Func_PropertyInfo,bool_).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities.ObjectPropertyExtensions.CountNonZeroNumericProperties(this object, System.Func<System.Reflection.PropertyInfo,bool>)')** `Method` Counts the number of non-zero numeric properties in an object, optionally filtered by a custom condition.
  - **[CountNumericProperties(this object, Func&lt;PropertyInfo,bool&gt;)](ObjectPropertyExtensions.CountNumericProperties(thisobject,Func_PropertyInfo,bool_).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities.ObjectPropertyExtensions.CountNumericProperties(this object, System.Func<System.Reflection.PropertyInfo,bool>)')** `Method` Counts the number of numeric properties in an object, optionally filtered by a custom condition.
  - **[SumNumericProperties(this object, Func&lt;PropertyInfo,bool&gt;)](ObjectPropertyExtensions.SumNumericProperties(thisobject,Func_PropertyInfo,bool_).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities.ObjectPropertyExtensions.SumNumericProperties(this object, System.Func<System.Reflection.PropertyInfo,bool>)')** `Method` Calculates the sum of all numeric properties of an object, optionally filtered by a custom condition.
  - **[ToPropertiesString(this object, int, char, string)](ObjectPropertyExtensions.ToPropertiesString(thisobject,int,char,string).md 'BeeneticToolkit.Logging.Utilities.ObjectPropertyExtensions.ToPropertiesString(this object, int, char, string)')** `Method` Converts an object to a string representation of its public properties, including nested objects, dictionaries, and collections.